   Kristian Stapley 
I am an adaptable sales and marketing professional transitioning mid-career to data analysis. I leverage a rich background in customer engagement with a proven track record of driving data-driven solutions.  I combine solid people skills and a practical mind set to deliver data visualisations and crucial insights for informed business decisions. 
I am now seeking a mid-career opportunity to harness my broad industry knowledge and analytical expertise to produce enhanced strategic outcomes. 
My sales experience, practical background and love of problem solving means I focus on uncovering underlying trends and opportunities and turn my data analysis into actionable solutions.
Study 
Master of Data Science 		-Swinburne Uni 2022 
Bachelor of Business (Marketing) 	-James Cook Uni 

Key Skills:
Data Analysis & Interpretation: Proficiently analyse intricate datasets, revealing hidden patterns and translating insights into actionable strategies. Skilled in Excel, Python, R, Java, SQL, and other analytical tools to extract, transform, and interpret data. Experienced with Hadoop, Spark, and NoSQL for big data management.
Data Visualization: Skilled in data visualization and BI tools including Tableau, Power BI and Python. Expertly translate complex data into intuitive visualisations to enhance data-driven decision-making.
Customer-Centric Approach: Capitalise on strong customer and business analysis skills from previous roles, aligning data insights with business goals to drive meaningful results.
Business analysis: trained to deep-dive on underlying causes of business challenges across multiple industries, apply critical thinking and deliver a range of strategies to address and optimise. Develop and present to stakeholders a strategic plan including cost benefit analysis.
Customer and stakeholder engagement: Adept at building strong client relationships, engaging with clients, and presenting at board level. Exceptional interpersonal skills with a focus on delivering high-quality service.
Technical Acumen: Command over Microsoft Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Adobe
Languages - Python, r, Java, HTML, SQL, XML, JSON, RUBY
Big Data - Hadoop , Spark, NoSQL
Data Visualisation   Tableau, Python, r

Life skills
Resourceful, professional, pragmatic.
Proven people skills and service orientation.
Driven by success and KPI excellence.
Adaptable and comfortable with change.
Data-driven, outcome-focused.
Engaged in community work with diverse groups.
Employment history
Data analysis 
Data analyst | ResilienceCo  | Contract July 2023 -current 
Source, extract data from text, web, pdf sources
Analyse market research data
Visualisation overlay on Australia
Data Science Student | Swinburne University of Technology | July 2020 - November 2022
Attained advanced proficiency in data analytics techniques, big data management, Machine Learning, interactive data visualisation and BI tools.
ICT Sales
Business Development Manager | Oreta| iCT Group| Nov  19    Nov  21
Cultivated leads through diverse channels, using data-backed insights to identify opportunities for IT solutions. Generated leads through LinkedIn, calling lists, and networking, creating opportunities for IT-focused solutions including Managed IT services and Microsoft TEAMS.
Strategic Account Executive | Optus | Contract role Mar  18   Aug 19
Managed a portfolios of Tier 1 clients, combining data insights with strategic cross-selling to drive portfolio growth through multi-product holdings and new business acquisition.
Senior Account Executive | ICT sales |Telstra Business | February  09  July  17
Leveraged data to tailor technology solutions, project managing complex IT initiatives and ensuring strategic alignment. Managed a portfolio of medium to large-sized business clients, offering technology solutions such as managed services, IoT, Cloud solutions, LAN/WAN networks, and cybersecurity. I advanced through several roles (Portfolio Manager, Account Manager, Senior Account Executive) and worked in Melbourne, Brisbane and Cairns offices.
Marketing
Product Specialist |Telstra Marketing| Contract July  17  November  17
Dashboard reporting of product sales, utilised data analysis to refine channel sales strategies, enhancing frontline staff training and supporting decision-making.

Certifications
Google cloud
AWS
Projects
Academic projects

Personal projects






